Used on image based data.
CNN are special kind of neural network for processing data that has a known grid like time series data(1D) or images(2D).
CNN have a convonutional layer (which perform the function of convolution which is different from the matrix multiplication function unlike in ANN )which is not in ANN
ANN=>matrix multiplication
If  a neural network has atleast 1 convonutional layer then it is called CNN.

3 types of layer in CNN:-
1)Convonutional Layer
2)Pooling layer
3)Fully connected Layer(also present in ANN)

Inspired by human visual cortex.

We can use ANN over image data but we do not do it bcz.:-
Why not ANN?
=>1)Results are not that satisfactory,CNN>>>ANN.
  2)High Computational cost in ANN-complex neural network formation-(40,40)pixel image-we want to feed it to a neural network-we convert it to 1D by putting the pixels of
    second row after the pixels of first row.-1600 pixels in input layer-make fully connected neural network-complex
  3)Overfitting-since we are having so many neurons(connection),so we will be capturing each minute pattern-overfitting
  4)Loss of important information like spatial arrangement of pixels-since the image is 2D,we have the eyes and nose of a monkey,when we convert it to 1D we loose the
    information about the distance between these two 
    
    
    CNN Intution:-
    
    Image is a collection of pixels
    We break down the image into parts and they are called features.When we provide the image to a CNN,then it tries to pick the primitive features like the edges.
    Then layer by layer it combines those primitive features to make a complex feature.
    CNN-convonutional layers(basically filters)-function-to extract the features of our image-The layers progressively detect more complex features.
    
    Task of CNN:-
    1)Image classification
    2)Object localization-in a image where is the object(build a rectangular box over there)-to find object in a image
    3)Object Detection-Find and locate all the objects in a image-self driving car-also we generate a probability that how much confidengt I am that the object which I am
      saying is there in the image.
    4)Face detection
    5)Image segmentation-divide image into regions-now if I want to do any analysis on it then it helps-self driving car
    6)Converting low resolution images to high resolution.
    7)Convert black and white pic to coloured one
    8)Pose detection-if i am loading the image of a peron then it can detect me the correct pose of that person-games played like Xbox
    
    
    
    
    Roadmap:-
    1)Biological connection
    2)CNN-basics
       i)convonutonal operation-how it works
       ii)padding
       iii)stride
       iv)pooling
    3)How to build a CNN architecture
    4)CNN Vs ANN-practical comparison
    5)Dog Vs Cat classifier
    6)Data Augmentation-used when we have shortage of data
    7)Popular CNN architecture-LENET,ALEXNET,VGGNET,RESNET,XCEPTION
    8)Transfer Learning
    9)Projects
     Object detection after RNN
